.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to TarkovTracker

Thank you for your interest in contributing to TarkovTracker! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## Table of Contents
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [Issue Guidelines](#issue-guidelines)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Label System](#label-system)
- [Project Board](#project-board)
- [Coding Standards](#coding-standards)

## Code of Conduct

Please be respectful and constructive in all interactions. We're building a tool for the Tarkov community together.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the repository** and clone your fork locally
2. **Install dependencies**: `npm install`
3. **Set up environment**: Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and add your Supabase credentials
4. **Start dev server**: `npm run dev`
5. **Read CLAUDE.md** for detailed development guidelines

## Development Workflow

### 1. Find or Create an Issue
- Check existing issues before creating new ones
- Use appropriate issue templates (Bug Report, Feature Request, Enhancement, Data Issue)
- Clearly describe the problem or feature

### 2. Get Assigned
- Comment on the issue to express interest
- Wait for maintainer assignment to avoid duplicate work
- Issues labeled `good-first-issue` are great for newcomers

### 3. Create a Branch
```bash
git checkout -b type/short-description
```

Branch naming convention:
- `fix/issue-description` - Bug fixes
- `feat/feature-name` - New features
- `enhance/improvement` - Enhancements
- `refactor/area-name` - Code refactoring
- `docs/topic` - Documentation
- `chore/task` - Maintenance tasks

### 4. Make Your Changes
- Follow coding standards (see [Coding Standards](#coding-standards))
- Write meaningful commit messages
- Test your changes thoroughly
- Each pull request must focus on a single change (fix, update, documentation, or feature). Unrelated changes may be requested to be split or closed.

### 5. Submit a Pull Request
- Use the PR template
- Link related issues
- Provide clear description and test plan
- Add screenshots/videos for UI changes
- Ensure all checks pass

## Issue Guidelines

### Creating Issues

**Use the right template:**
- **Bug Report** - Something isn't working
- **Feature Request** - New feature or major addition
- **Enhancement** - Improvement to existing feature
- **Data Issue** - Incorrect quest/item/game data

**Provide details:**
- Clear, descriptive title
- Steps to reproduce (for bugs)
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Screenshots when relevant
- Game mode (PvP/PvE)
- Browser/environment info

### Issue Labels

Issues are automatically labeled based on template selection. Maintainers will add additional labels for:
- **Area**: `area:frontend`, `area:backend`, `area:tasks`, `area:team`, etc.
- **Priority**: `priority:critical`, `priority:high`, `priority:medium`, `priority:low`
- **Status**: `status:inbox`, `status:blocked`, `status:needs-info`, etc.
- **Data**: `data:quest`, `data:item` for data-related issues

## Pull Request Process

### Before Submitting

1. **Self-review your code**
   - Remove debug logs and commented code
   - Check for typos and formatting
   - Ensure no secrets or credentials

2. **Test thoroughly**
   - Test manually in browser
   - Run `npm run lint` (must pass with zero warnings)
   - Run `npx vitest` if applicable
   - Test in both PvP and PvE modes if relevant

3. **Update documentation**
   - Update README if adding features
   - Add JSDoc comments for new functions
   - Update CLAUDE.md if changing architecture

### PR Requirements

- Title follows format: `[Type]: Brief description`
- All template sections completed
- Linked to related issue(s)
- Passes all CI checks
- No merge conflicts
- Approved by at least one maintainer

### Review Process

1. Maintainers will review your PR
2. Address any feedback or requested changes
3. Once approved, maintainers will merge
4. Your contribution will be in the next release!

## Issue Types & Label System

We use GitHub's native **Issue Types** for categorization and a streamlined **label system** (12 labels total). See [LABELS.md](.github/LABELS.md) for the complete reference.

### Issue Types (required - choose one)
- 🐛 **bug** - An unexpected problem or behavior
- ✨ **feature** - Adds or improves functionality in the codebase
- ⚡ **enhancement** - Improvement or optimization to existing features
- 📦 **dependencies** - Package updates and dependency management
- 📝 **documentation** - Documentation, guides, or README updates

### Area Labels (optional - technical boundaries)
All area labels use light green color for visual grouping:
- `area:ui` - Vue components, pages, styling
- `area:api` - Nitro server routes, workers, API endpoints
- `area:database` - Supabase schema, migrations, queries
- `area:auth` - Authentication and authorization
- `area:realtime` - Team sync, Supabase broadcasts
- `area:i18n` - Translations and localization

### Priority Labels (optional)
- `priority:high` - Critical bugs, security, important features
- `priority:medium` - Normal priority (default)
- `priority:low` - Nice to have

### Special Labels (optional)
- `good-first-issue` - Good for newcomers
- `help-wanted` - Community help needed
- `upstream` - Issue belongs in data-overlay repo (close with explanation)

### Workflow States
Status labels (needs-info, blocked, in-progress) are **NOT** used. Instead, these are managed via GitHub Project board columns:
- **Inbox** - New issues awaiting triage
- **Waiting for Info** - Need clarification from reporter
- **Blocked** - Waiting on external dependency
- **Backlog** - Triaged, not yet prioritized
- **Todo** - Ready to work on
- **In Progress** - Actively being worked on
- **In Review** - PR awaiting review
- **Done** - Completed/merged

## Project Board

Our GitHub Project uses these columns:

- **📥 Inbox** - New issues awaiting triage
- **📋 Backlog** - Triaged but not yet prioritized
- **📝 Todo** - Ready to work on, prioritized
- **🚧 In Progress** - Actively being worked on
- **👀 In Review** - PR open, awaiting review
- **✅ Done** - Completed/merged

Issues move automatically based on actions:
- Creating an issue → Inbox
- Opening a PR → In Progress
- Marking PR ready for review → In Review
- Merging PR → Done

## Coding Standards

**See CLAUDE.md for comprehensive coding standards. Key points:**

### TypeScript & Vue
- Use `<script setup lang="ts">` with TypeScript
- Use `<style scoped lang="scss">` for styles
- 2-space indentation, 100-char line width
- Single quotes, semicolons, trailing commas (es5)

### Imports & Structure
- No blank lines between import groups
- Alphabetically sorted imports
- Use `@/` aliases instead of relative parent imports (`../../`)
- PascalCase components, camelCase functions, kebab-case files

### Styling
- Tailwind CSS v4 theme layer only - no hex colors
- Use semantic color variables from theme
- Responsive design (mobile-first)

### Error Handling
- Log errors with `logger` from `@/utils/logger`
- Provide user-friendly error messages
- Handle edge cases gracefully

### Testing
- Write tests for new features
- Keep tests deterministic
- Mock network/Supabase calls
- Run `npx vitest` before submitting

### Git Commits
- Write clear, descriptive commit messages
- Use present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
- Reference issue numbers when applicable
- Keep commits focused and atomic

## Questions?

- Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/tarkovtracker)
- Ask in issue comments
- Check existing documentation

Thank you for contributing to TarkovTracker! 🎮

Commit message:

docs: update agent guidelines and documentation
- AGENTS.md: Fix incorrect statement about missing Copilot instructions
- AGENTS.md: Add 'Ask before acting on complex requests' rule
- AGENTS.md: Add 'Plan Mode' section for concise planning guidance

- CLAUDE.md: Add 'Ask before acting on complex requests' rule
- CLAUDE.md: Add 'Plan Mode' section

- GEMINI.md: Add 'Ask before acting on complex requests' rule
- GEMINI.md: Add 'Plan Mode' section

- CONTRIBUTING.md: Update styling guidelines to enforce Tailwind v4-only policy
- CONTRIBUTING.md: Remove outdated reference to <style scoped lang="scss">
- CONTRIBUTING.md: Add 'Guidelines for AI Coding Agents' section with:
  - Ask Before Acting: Clarify complex/ambiguous requests before proceeding
  - Communicate Proactively: Surface issues and trade-offs early
  - Stay Focused: Complete tasks fully, avoid scope creep

- copilot-instructions.md: Add full 'Agent Rules' section for consistency

These changes ensure all agent instruction files have consistent guidance
for AI coding assistants to ask clarifying questions on complex requests
rather than assuming intent, and align styling guidance with the Tailwind
v4-only policy across all documentation.

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to TarkovTracker

Thank you for your interest in contributing to TarkovTracker! This document provides guidelines and information for contributors.

## Table of Contents
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Development Workflow](#development-workflow)
- [Issue Guidelines](#issue-guidelines)
- [Pull Request Process](#pull-request-process)
- [Label System](#label-system)
- [Project Board](#project-board)
- [Coding Standards](#coding-standards)
- [Guidelines for AI Coding Agents](#guidelines-for-ai-coding-agents)

## Code of Conduct

Please be respectful and constructive in all interactions. We're building a tool for the Tarkov community together.

## Getting Started

1. **Fork the repository** and clone your fork locally
2. **Install dependencies**: `npm install`
3. **Set up environment**: Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and add your Supabase credentials
4. **Start dev server**: `npm run dev`
5. **Read CLAUDE.md** for detailed development guidelines

## Development Workflow

### 1. Find or Create an Issue
- Check existing issues before creating new ones
- Use appropriate issue templates (Bug Report, Feature Request, Enhancement, Data Issue)
- Clearly describe the problem or feature

### 2. Get Assigned
- Comment on the issue to express interest
- Wait for maintainer assignment to avoid duplicate work
- Issues labeled `good-first-issue` are great for newcomers

### 3. Create a Branch
```bash
git checkout -b type/short-description
```

Branch naming convention:
- `fix/issue-description` - Bug fixes
- `feat/feature-name` - New features
- `enhance/improvement` - Enhancements
- `refactor/area-name` - Code refactoring
- `docs/topic` - Documentation
- `chore/task` - Maintenance tasks

### 4. Make Your Changes
- Follow coding standards (see [Coding Standards](#coding-standards))
- Write meaningful commit messages
- Test your changes thoroughly
- Each pull request must focus on a single change (fix, update, documentation, or feature). Unrelated changes may be requested to be split or closed.

### 5. Submit a Pull Request
- Use the PR template
- Link related issues
- Provide clear description and test plan
- Add screenshots/videos for UI changes
- Ensure all checks pass

## Issue Guidelines

### Creating Issues

**Use the right template:**
- **Bug Report** - Something isn't working
- **Feature Request** - New feature or major addition
- **Enhancement** - Improvement to existing feature
- **Data Issue** - Incorrect quest/item/game data

**Provide details:**
- Clear, descriptive title
- Steps to reproduce (for bugs)
- Expected vs actual behavior
- Screenshots when relevant
- Game mode (PvP/PvE)
- Browser/environment info

### Issue Labels

Issues are automatically labeled based on template selection. Maintainers will add additional labels for:
- **Area**: `area:frontend`, `area:backend`, `area:tasks`, `area:team`, etc.
- **Priority**: `priority:critical`, `priority:high`, `priority:medium`, `priority:low`
- **Status**: `status:inbox`, `status:blocked`, `status:needs-info`, etc.
- **Data**: `data:quest`, `data:item` for data-related issues

## Pull Request Process

### Before Submitting

1. **Self-review your code**
   - Remove debug logs and commented code
   - Check for typos and formatting
   - Ensure no secrets or credentials

2. **Test thoroughly**
   - Test manually in browser
   - Run `npm run lint` (must pass with zero warnings)
   - Run `npx vitest` if applicable
   - Test in both PvP and PvE modes if relevant

3. **Update documentation**
   - Update README if adding features
   - Add JSDoc comments for new functions
   - Update CLAUDE.md if changing architecture

### PR Requirements

- Title follows format: `[Type]: Brief description`
- All template sections completed
- Linked to related issue(s)
- Passes all CI checks
- No merge conflicts
- Approved by at least one maintainer

### Review Process

1. Maintainers will review your PR
2. Address any feedback or requested changes
3. Once approved, maintainers will merge
4. Your contribution will be in the next release!

## Issue Types & Label System

We use GitHub's native **Issue Types** for categorization and a streamlined **label system** (12 labels total). See [LABELS.md](.github/LABELS.md) for the complete reference.

### Issue Types (required - choose one)
- 🐛 **bug** - An unexpected problem or behavior
- ✨ **feature** - Adds or improves functionality in the codebase
- ⚡ **enhancement** - Improvement or optimization to existing features
- 📦 **dependencies** - Package updates and dependency management
- 📝 **documentation** - Documentation, guides, or README updates

### Area Labels (optional - technical boundaries)
All area labels use light green color for visual grouping:
- `area:ui` - Vue components, pages, styling
- `area:api` - Nitro server routes, workers, API endpoints
- `area:database` - Supabase schema, migrations, queries
- `area:auth` - Authentication and authorization
- `area:realtime` - Team sync, Supabase broadcasts
- `area:i18n` - Translations and localization

### Priority Labels (optional)
- `priority:high` - Critical bugs, security, important features
- `priority:medium` - Normal priority (default)
- `priority:low` - Nice to have

### Special Labels (optional)
- `good-first-issue` - Good for newcomers
- `help-wanted` - Community help needed
- `upstream` - Issue belongs in data-overlay repo (close with explanation)

### Workflow States
Status labels (needs-info, blocked, in-progress) are **NOT** used. Instead, these are managed via GitHub Project board columns:
- **Inbox** - New issues awaiting triage
- **Waiting for Info** - Need clarification from reporter
- **Blocked** - Waiting on external dependency
- **Backlog** - Triaged, not yet prioritized
- **Todo** - Ready to work on
- **In Progress** - Actively being worked on
- **In Review** - PR awaiting review
- **Done** - Completed/merged

## Project Board

Our GitHub Project uses these columns:

- **📥 Inbox** - New issues awaiting triage
- **📋 Backlog** - Triaged but not yet prioritized
- **📝 Todo** - Ready to work on, prioritized
- **🚧 In Progress** - Actively being worked on
- **👀 In Review** - PR open, awaiting review
- **✅ Done** - Completed/merged

Issues move automatically based on actions:
- Creating an issue → Inbox
- Opening a PR → In Progress
- Marking PR ready for review → In Review
- Merging PR → Done

## Coding Standards

**See CLAUDE.md for comprehensive coding standards. Key points:**

### TypeScript & Vue
- Use `<script setup lang="ts">` with TypeScript
- **No `<style>` blocks**—Tailwind v4 is the only styling approach
- 2-space indentation, 100-char line width
- Single quotes, semicolons, trailing commas (es5)

### Imports & Structure
- No blank lines between import groups
- Alphabetically sorted imports
- Use `@/` aliases instead of relative parent imports (`../../`)
- PascalCase components, camelCase functions, kebab-case files

### Styling
- **Tailwind v4 only**—no `<style>` blocks, SCSS, or scoped CSS
- Use Tailwind theme layer for colors—no hex values in templates
- Complex animations go in `app/assets/css/tailwind.css` using `@theme` or `@keyframes`
- Responsive design (mobile-first)

### Error Handling
- Log errors with `logger` from `@/utils/logger`
- Provide user-friendly error messages
- Handle edge cases gracefully

### Testing
- Write tests for new features
- Keep tests deterministic
- Mock network/Supabase calls
- Run `npx vitest` before submitting

### Git Commits
- Write clear, descriptive commit messages
- Use present tense ("Add feature" not "Added feature")
- Reference issue numbers when applicable
- Keep commits focused and atomic

## Guidelines for AI Coding Agents

When working with AI coding assistants on this project:

### Ask Before Acting
- **Clarify complex or ambiguous requests** before proceeding—don't assume intent
- If a task has multiple valid interpretations, ask which approach is preferred
- When uncertain about scope, confirm boundaries before making changes
- It's better to ask one clarifying question than to redo work

### Communicate Proactively
- Surface potential issues or trade-offs early
- If you encounter blockers or unexpected complexity, report them
- Propose alternatives when the requested approach has significant downsides

### Stay Focused
- Complete one task fully before moving to the next
- Avoid scope creep—stick to what was requested
- Flag related issues you notice, but don't fix them without permission

## Questions?

- Join our [Discord](https://discord.gg/M8nBgA2sT6)
- Ask in issue comments
- Check existing documentation

Thank you for contributing to TarkovTracker! 🎮
