docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, before:

# TarkovTracker Architecture Documentation

## Overview

TarkovTracker is a sophisticated single-page application (SPA) for tracking progress in Escape from Tarkov. Built with Nuxt 4, Vue 3, and Supabase, it provides real-time multi-device synchronization, team collaboration, and comprehensive task/hideout tracking.

## Technology Stack

| Layer             | Technology       | Version |
| ----------------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| Framework         | Nuxt             | ^4.3.0  |
| UI Library        | Vue 3            | ^3.5.27 |
| Component Library | @nuxt/ui         | ^4.4.0  |
| Styling           | Tailwind CSS     | ^4.1.18 |
| State Management  | Pinia            | ^3.0.4  |
| Backend           | Supabase         | ^2.93.2 |
| Deployment        | Cloudflare Pages | -       |
| Maps              | Leaflet          | ^1.9.4  |
| Graphs            | Graphology       | ^0.26.0 |
| Visualization     | D3               | ^7.9.0  |
| i18n              | Vue I18n         | ^11.2.8 |

## Project Structure

```text
/
├── app/                      # Application source (Nuxt srcDir)
│   ├── assets/              # Static assets (CSS, images)
│   ├── components/          # Global UI components
│   ├── composables/         # Reusable composition functions
│   ├── data/                # Static data (maps.json)
│   ├── features/            # Feature modules (domain slices)
│   │   ├── admin/           # Admin dashboard
│   │   ├── dashboard/       # Main dashboard
│   │   ├── hideout/         # Hideout tracking
│   │   ├── maps/            # Interactive maps
│   │   ├── neededitems/     # Required items tracker
│   │   ├── settings/        # User settings
│   │   ├── tasks/           # Task/quest tracking
│   │   └── team/            # Team collaboration
│   ├── layouts/             # Page layouts
│   ├── locales/             # i18n translations (JSON5)
│   ├── pages/               # File-based routing
│   ├── plugins/             # Nuxt plugins
│   ├── server/              # Nitro server routes
│   │   ├── api/             # API endpoints
│   │   ├── middleware/      # Server middleware
│   │   └── utils/           # Server utilities
│   ├── shell/               # App chrome (nav, footer)
│   ├── stores/              # Pinia stores
│   ├── types/               # TypeScript definitions
│   └── utils/               # Utility functions
├── docs/                     # Documentation
├── supabase/                 # Supabase config and functions
├── workers/                  # Cloudflare Workers
│   └── api-gateway/         # Rate limiting gateway
├── nuxt.config.ts           # Nuxt configuration
├── package.json             # Dependencies
└── vitest.config.ts         # Test configuration
```

## Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Client"
        UI[Vue 3 SPA]
        Stores[Pinia Stores]
        IDB[(IndexedDB Cache)]
        LS[(localStorage)]
    end

    subgraph "State Management"
        TarkovStore[useTarkovStore<br/>User Progress]
        MetadataStore[useMetadataStore<br/>Game Data]
        PreferencesStore[usePreferencesStore<br/>UI Settings]
        ProgressStore[useProgressStore<br/>Computed Facade]
    end

    subgraph "Nuxt Server"
        API[API Routes<br/>/api/tarkov/*]
        TeamAPI[Team Routes<br/>/api/team/*]
        MW[Middleware<br/>API Protection]
    end

    subgraph "External Services"
        Supabase[(Supabase<br/>Auth, DB, Realtime)]
        TarkovDev[tarkov.dev<br/>GraphQL API]
        Overlay[GitHub Overlay<br/>Data Corrections]
    end

    subgraph "Deployment"
        CF[Cloudflare Pages]
        Gateway[API Gateway Worker]
    end

    UI --> Stores
    Stores --> IDB
    Stores --> LS

    TarkovStore --> ProgressStore
    MetadataStore --> ProgressStore
    PreferencesStore --> ProgressStore

    TarkovStore <--> Supabase
    API --> TarkovDev
    API --> Overlay
    TeamAPI --> Supabase

    MW --> API
    MW --> TeamAPI

    CF --> UI
    Gateway --> CF
```

## State Management

### Three-Store Pattern + Facade

TarkovTracker uses a **three-store pattern** with Pinia plus a computed facade:

1. **useTarkovStore** - User progress (tasks, hideout, level)
2. **useMetadataStore** - Game data (tasks, items, maps)
3. **usePreferencesStore** - UI settings

**Facade:**

- **useProgressStore** - Computed properties combining all three stores

### Store Responsibilities

#### useTarkovStore (User Progress)

**Location:** `app/stores/useTarkov.ts`

Manages user progress data with dual game mode support (PvP/PvE).

**Key Features:**

- localStorage persistence with user ID validation
- Supabase real-time sync with debouncing (5s)
- Multi-device conflict resolution
- Data migration for legacy formats
- Task repair mechanisms

#### useMetadataStore (Game Data)

**Location:** `app/stores/useMetadata.ts`

Manages static game data from tarkov.dev API.

**Key Features:**

- Two-phase task loading (core → objectives → rewards)
- IndexedDB caching with TTL
- Graph building for task dependencies
- Item hydration for objectives
- Language-aware data fetching

#### useProgressStore (Computed Facade)

**Location:** `app/stores/useProgress.ts`

Provides computed properties combining all stores.

**Key Computed Properties:**

- `tasksCompletions` - Per-team task completion status
- `unlockedTasks` - Task availability considering prerequisites
- `hideoutLevels` - Current hideout progression
- `objectiveCompletions` - Task objective progress
- `invalidTasks` - Data consistency validation

## Data Synchronization

### Supabase Sync Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant UI as Vue Component
    participant Store as useTarkovStore
    participant Local as localStorage
    participant Sync as useSupabaseSync
    participant RT as Realtime Channel
    participant DB as Supabase

    Note over UI,DB: Initial Load
    UI->>Store: initializeTarkovSync()
    Store->>Local: Load cached state
    Store->>DB: Fetch user_progress
    DB-->>Store: Return data
    Store->>Store: Merge & resolve conflicts
    Store->>Local: Persist state
    Store->>RT: Subscribe to changes

    Note over UI,DB: User Action
    UI->>Store: Update task completion
    Store->>Local: Persist immediately
    Store->>Sync: Queue debounced sync
    Sync->>DB: Upsert (after 5s debounce)

    Note over UI,DB: Remote Update
    RT-->>Store: Postgres change event
    Store->>Store: Detect self-origin
    Store->>Store: Merge with local
    Store->>UI: Trigger re-render
```

### Conflict Resolution Strategy

1. **Sticky Complete Semantics**: Once a task is marked complete, it stays complete unless explicitly set to false
2. **Timestamp-Based Merging**: Newer entries take precedence
3. **Max Value Preservation**: For counts and levels, keep the higher value
4. **Self-Origin Filtering**: Ignore echoed updates from own device (< 3s threshold)

## API Architecture

### Tarkov Data API

All game data is fetched through Nuxt server routes that proxy to tarkov.dev GraphQL API.

| Endpoint                       | Purpose              | Cache TTL |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------- | --------- |
| `/api/tarkov/bootstrap`        | Player levels        | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/tasks-core`       | Tasks, maps, traders | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/tasks-objectives` | Task objectives      | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/tasks-rewards`    | Task rewards         | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/hideout`          | Hideout stations     | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/items-lite`       | Items (minimal)      | 24h       |
| `/api/tarkov/items`            | Items (full)         | 24h       |
| `/api/tarkov/prestige`         | Prestige levels      | 24h       |
| `/api/tarkov/cache-meta`       | Cache purge status   | no-store  |

### Team API

| Endpoint            | Method | Purpose                    |
| ------------------- | ------ | -------------------------- |
| `/api/team/members` | GET    | Fetch team member profiles |

### Caching Strategy

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "Client"
        IDB[(IndexedDB<br/>Primary Cache)]
        LS[(localStorage<br/>Purge Timestamps)]
    end

    subgraph "Server"
        Edge[Edge Cache<br/>Cloudflare]
        API[API Handler]
    end

    subgraph "External"
        GraphQL[tarkov.dev]
    end

    Request --> IDB
    IDB -- "Cache Miss" --> Edge
    Edge -- "Cache Miss" --> API
    API --> GraphQL
    GraphQL --> API
    API --> Edge
    Edge --> IDB

    LS -- "Check Purge" --> API
```

## Security

### API Protection

```typescript
// nuxt.config.ts
runtimeConfig: {
  apiProtection: {
    allowedHosts: process.env.API_ALLOWED_HOSTS,
    trustedIpRanges: process.env.API_TRUSTED_IP_RANGES,
    requireAuth: process.env.API_REQUIRE_AUTH !== 'false',
    publicRoutes: '/api/tarkov/*',
    trustProxy: process.env.API_TRUST_PROXY === 'true',
  }
}
```

### Authentication Flow

1. User authenticates via Supabase (OAuth/email)
2. JWT stored in session
3. Protected routes validate token
4. Team API validates membership

## Performance Optimizations

1. **IndexedDB Caching**: Reduce network requests
2. **Idle Task Scheduling**: Defer non-critical fetches
3. **Graph Building**: O(1) task dependency lookups
4. **Memoization**: Cache computed values
5. **Virtual Scrolling**: Handle large lists
6. **Manual Chunks**: Separate vendor bundles

## Testing

**Framework:** Vitest + Vue Test Utils

```bash
# Run all tests
npx vitest run

# Watch mode (default)
npx vitest

# API Gateway tests
npm run test:api-gateway
```

**Test Organization:**

- Unit tests: `app/**/__tests__/*.test.ts`
- Mock strategy: Supabase client, network requests
- DOM environment: happy-dom

## Deployment

### Cloudflare Pages

```yaml
Build command: npm run build
Build output: dist
Root directory: /
Node.js version: 24.x
```

### Environment Variables

**Client-side (browser):**

| Variable                 | Description                            | Required |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `VITE_SUPABASE_URL`      | Supabase project URL for auth and sync | Yes¹     |
| `VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` | Supabase anon key for auth and sync    | Yes¹     |

> **¹ Yes:** Required in production; optional for local development. Without `VITE_SUPABASE_URL` and `VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`, authentication, multi-device sync, real-time collaboration, and team features will be unavailable. The app will function in offline mode with localStorage persistence only.

**Server-side (Nuxt/Workers):**

| Variable                    | Description          | Required    |
| --------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------- |
| `SUPABASE_URL`              | Supabase project URL | Yes (prod)² |
| `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`         | Supabase anon key    | Yes (prod)² |
| `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` | Service role key     | Yes (prod)² |
| `NUXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL`       | Application URL      | Yes (prod)² |
| `API_ALLOWED_HOSTS`         | Allowed origin hosts | No          |
| `API_TRUST_PROXY`           | Trust proxy headers  | No          |

> **² Yes (prod):** Required in production deployments; optional in local/dev where auth and sync will be disabled.

## Code Conventions

- **Indent:** 2 spaces
- **Line width:** 100 characters
- **Strings:** Single quotes
- **Semicolons:** Always
- **Imports:** Use `@/` alias
- **Components:** PascalCase
- **Colors:** Tailwind tokens only (no hex)
- **Comments:** Only where necessary

Commit message:

docs: move OAuth popup flow documentation to ARCHITECTURE.md
- Remove inline timer hierarchy comment from login.vue
- Add comprehensive OAuth Popup Flow section to ARCHITECTURE.md
- Document pollTimer, fallbackTimer, abandonedTimer behavior
- Explain popupConfirmedOpen and loading.value gating logic

docs/ARCHITECTURE.md, after:

# TarkovTracker Architecture Documentation

## Overview

TarkovTracker is a sophisticated single-page application (SPA) for tracking progress in Escape from Tarkov. Built with Nuxt 4, Vue 3, and Supabase, it provides real-time multi-device synchronization, team collaboration, and comprehensive task/hideout tracking.

## Technology Stack

| Layer             | Technology       | Version |
| ----------------- | ---------------- | ------- |
| Framework         | Nuxt             | ^4.3.0  |
| UI Library        | Vue 3            | ^3.5.27 |
| Component Library | @nuxt/ui         | ^4.4.0  |
| Styling           | Tailwind CSS     | ^4.1.18 |
| State Management  | Pinia            | ^3.0.4  |
| Backend           | Supabase         | ^2.93.2 |
| Deployment        | Cloudflare Pages | -       |
| Maps              | Leaflet          | ^1.9.4  |
| Graphs            | Graphology       | ^0.26.0 |
| Visualization     | D3               | ^7.9.0  |
| i18n              | Vue I18n         | ^11.2.8 |

## Project Structure

```text
/
├── app/                      # Application source (Nuxt srcDir)
│   ├── assets/              # Static assets (CSS, images)
│   ├── components/          # Global UI components
│   ├── composables/         # Reusable composition functions
│   ├── data/                # Static data (maps.json)
│   ├── features/            # Feature modules (domain slices)
│   │   ├── admin/           # Admin dashboard
│   │   ├── dashboard/       # Main dashboard
│   │   ├── hideout/         # Hideout tracking
│   │   ├── maps/            # Interactive maps
│   │   ├── neededitems/     # Required items tracker
│   │   ├── settings/        # User settings
│   │   ├── tasks/           # Task/quest tracking
│   │   └── team/            # Team collaboration
│   ├── layouts/             # Page layouts
│   ├── locales/             # i18n translations (JSON5)
│   ├── pages/               # File-based routing
│   ├── plugins/             # Nuxt plugins
│   ├── server/              # Nitro server routes
│   │   ├── api/             # API endpoints
│   │   ├── middleware/      # Server middleware
│   │   └── utils/           # Server utilities
│   ├── shell/               # App chrome (nav, footer)
│   ├── stores/              # Pinia stores
│   ├── types/               # TypeScript definitions
│   └── utils/               # Utility functions
├── docs/                     # Documentation
├── supabase/                 # Supabase config and functions
├── workers/                  # Cloudflare Workers
│   └── api-gateway/         # Rate limiting gateway
├── nuxt.config.ts           # Nuxt configuration
├── package.json             # Dependencies
└── vitest.config.ts         # Test configuration
```

## Architecture Diagram

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Client"
        UI[Vue 3 SPA]
        Stores[Pinia Stores]
        IDB[(IndexedDB Cache)]
        LS[(localStorage)]
    end

    subgraph "State Management"
        TarkovStore[useTarkovStore<br/>User Progress]
        MetadataStore[useMetadataStore<br/>Game Data]
        PreferencesStore[usePreferencesStore<br/>UI Settings]
        ProgressStore[useProgressStore<br/>Computed Facade]
    end

    subgraph "Nuxt Server"
        API[API Routes<br/>/api/tarkov/*]
        TeamAPI[Team Routes<br/>/api/team/*]
        MW[Middleware<br/>API Protection]
    end

    subgraph "External Services"
        Supabase[(Supabase<br/>Auth, DB, Realtime)]
        TarkovDev[tarkov.dev<br/>GraphQL API]
        Overlay[GitHub Overlay<br/>Data Corrections]
    end

    subgraph "Deployment"
        CF[Cloudflare Pages]
        Gateway[API Gateway Worker]
    end

    UI --> Stores
    Stores --> IDB
    Stores --> LS

    TarkovStore --> ProgressStore
    MetadataStore --> ProgressStore
    PreferencesStore --> ProgressStore

    TarkovStore <--> Supabase
    API --> TarkovDev
    API --> Overlay
    TeamAPI --> Supabase

    MW --> API
    MW --> TeamAPI

    CF --> UI
    Gateway --> CF
```

## State Management

### Three-Store Pattern + Facade

TarkovTracker uses a **three-store pattern** with Pinia plus a computed facade:

1. **useTarkovStore** - User progress (tasks, hideout, level)
2. **useMetadataStore** - Game data (tasks, items, maps)
3. **usePreferencesStore** - UI settings

**Facade:**

- **useProgressStore** - Computed properties combining all three stores

### Store Responsibilities

#### useTarkovStore (User Progress)

**Location:** `app/stores/useTarkov.ts`

Manages user progress data with dual game mode support (PvP/PvE).

**Key Features:**

- localStorage persistence with user ID validation
- Supabase real-time sync with debouncing (5s)
- Multi-device conflict resolution
- Data migration for legacy formats
- Task repair mechanisms

#### useMetadataStore (Game Data)

**Location:** `app/stores/useMetadata.ts`

Manages static game data from tarkov.dev API.

**Key Features:**

- Two-phase task loading (core → objectives → rewards)
- IndexedDB caching with TTL
- Graph building for task dependencies
- Item hydration for objectives
- Language-aware data fetching

#### useProgressStore (Computed Facade)

**Location:** `app/stores/useProgress.ts`

Provides computed properties combining all stores.

**Key Computed Properties:**

- `tasksCompletions` - Per-team task completion status
- `unlockedTasks` - Task availability considering prerequisites
- `hideoutLevels` - Current hideout progression
- `objectiveCompletions` - Task objective progress
- `invalidTasks` - Data consistency validation

## Data Synchronization

### Supabase Sync Flow

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant UI as Vue Component
    participant Store as useTarkovStore
    participant Local as localStorage
    participant Sync as useSupabaseSync
    participant RT as Realtime Channel
    participant DB as Supabase

    Note over UI,DB: Initial Load
    UI->>Store: initializeTarkovSync()
    Store->>Local: Load cached state
    Store->>DB: Fetch user_progress
    DB-->>Store: Return data
    Store->>Store: Merge & resolve conflicts
    Store->>Local: Persist state
    Store->>RT: Subscribe to changes

    Note over UI,DB: User Action
    UI->>Store: Update task completion
    Store->>Local: Persist immediately
    Store->>Sync: Queue debounced sync
    Sync->>DB: Upsert (after 5s debounce)

    Note over UI,DB: Remote Update
    RT-->>Store: Postgres change event
    Store->>Store: Detect self-origin
    Store->>Store: Merge with local
    Store->>UI: Trigger re-render
```

### Conflict Resolution Strategy

1. **Sticky Complete Semantics**: Once a task is marked complete, it stays complete unless explicitly set to false
2. **Timestamp-Based Merging**: Newer entries take precedence
3. **Max Value Preservation**: For counts and levels, keep the higher value
4. **Self-Origin Filtering**: Ignore echoed updates from own device (< 3s threshold)

## Authentication

### OAuth Popup Flow (Login)

- `pollTimer` runs every 500ms; if the popup closes, it clears `loading.value[provider]` and runs
  `cleanup()`, otherwise it sets `popupConfirmedOpen`.
- `fallbackTimer` runs at 3s; if `didCleanup` is false, loading is still active, the popup was never
  confirmed open, and the popup is missing or closed, it runs `cleanup()` and then
  `fallbackToRedirect(url, provider)`.
- `abandonedTimer` runs at 90s; if `didCleanup` is still false, it clears `loading.value[provider]` and
  runs `cleanup()` to abort the flow.
- `popupConfirmedOpen` tracks whether the popup has been detected as open at least once to avoid
  triggering the redirect fallback unnecessarily.
- `loading.value[provider]` acts as the gate for the fallback timer; if loading is cleared, fallback exits.
- `cleanup()` clears timers, removes the message listener, and attempts to close the popup safely.

## API Architecture

### Tarkov Data API

All game data is fetched through Nuxt server routes that proxy to tarkov.dev GraphQL API.

| Endpoint                       | Purpose              | Cache TTL |
| ------------------------------ | -------------------- | --------- |
| `/api/tarkov/bootstrap`        | Player levels        | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/tasks-core`       | Tasks, maps, traders | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/tasks-objectives` | Task objectives      | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/tasks-rewards`    | Task rewards         | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/hideout`          | Hideout stations     | 12h       |
| `/api/tarkov/items-lite`       | Items (minimal)      | 24h       |
| `/api/tarkov/items`            | Items (full)         | 24h       |
| `/api/tarkov/prestige`         | Prestige levels      | 24h       |
| `/api/tarkov/cache-meta`       | Cache purge status   | no-store  |

### Team API

| Endpoint            | Method | Purpose                    |
| ------------------- | ------ | -------------------------- |
| `/api/team/members` | GET    | Fetch team member profiles |

### Caching Strategy

```mermaid
graph TD
    subgraph "Client"
        IDB[(IndexedDB<br/>Primary Cache)]
        LS[(localStorage<br/>Purge Timestamps)]
    end

    subgraph "Server"
        Edge[Edge Cache<br/>Cloudflare]
        API[API Handler]
    end

    subgraph "External"
        GraphQL[tarkov.dev]
    end

    Request --> IDB
    IDB -- "Cache Miss" --> Edge
    Edge -- "Cache Miss" --> API
    API --> GraphQL
    GraphQL --> API
    API --> Edge
    Edge --> IDB

    LS -- "Check Purge" --> API
```

## Security

### API Protection

```typescript
// nuxt.config.ts
runtimeConfig: {
  apiProtection: {
    allowedHosts: process.env.API_ALLOWED_HOSTS,
    trustedIpRanges: process.env.API_TRUSTED_IP_RANGES,
    requireAuth: process.env.API_REQUIRE_AUTH !== 'false',
    publicRoutes: '/api/tarkov/*',
    trustProxy: process.env.API_TRUST_PROXY === 'true',
  }
}
```

### Authentication Flow

1. User authenticates via Supabase (OAuth/email)
2. JWT stored in session
3. Protected routes validate token
4. Team API validates membership

## Performance Optimizations

1. **IndexedDB Caching**: Reduce network requests
2. **Idle Task Scheduling**: Defer non-critical fetches
3. **Graph Building**: O(1) task dependency lookups
4. **Memoization**: Cache computed values
5. **Virtual Scrolling**: Handle large lists
6. **Manual Chunks**: Separate vendor bundles

## Testing

**Framework:** Vitest + Vue Test Utils

```bash
# Run all tests
npx vitest run

# Watch mode (default)
npx vitest

# API Gateway tests
npm run test:api-gateway
```

**Test Organization:**

- Unit tests: `app/**/__tests__/*.test.ts`
- Mock strategy: Supabase client, network requests
- DOM environment: happy-dom

## Deployment

### Cloudflare Pages

```yaml
Build command: npm run build
Build output: dist
Root directory: /
Node.js version: 24.x
```

### Environment Variables

**Client-side (browser):**

| Variable                 | Description                            | Required |
| ------------------------ | -------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `VITE_SUPABASE_URL`      | Supabase project URL for auth and sync | Yes¹     |
| `VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY` | Supabase anon key for auth and sync    | Yes¹     |

> **¹ Yes:** Required in production; optional for local development. Without `VITE_SUPABASE_URL` and `VITE_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`, authentication, multi-device sync, real-time collaboration, and team features will be unavailable. The app will function in offline mode with localStorage persistence only.

**Server-side (Nuxt/Workers):**

| Variable                    | Description          | Required    |
| --------------------------- | -------------------- | ----------- |
| `SUPABASE_URL`              | Supabase project URL | Yes (prod)² |
| `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`         | Supabase anon key    | Yes (prod)² |
| `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY` | Service role key     | Yes (prod)² |
| `NUXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL`       | Application URL      | Yes (prod)² |
| `API_ALLOWED_HOSTS`         | Allowed origin hosts | No          |
| `API_TRUST_PROXY`           | Trust proxy headers  | No          |

> **² Yes (prod):** Required in production deployments; optional in local/dev where auth and sync will be disabled.

## Code Conventions

- **Indent:** 2 spaces
- **Line width:** 100 characters
- **Strings:** Single quotes
- **Semicolons:** Always
- **Imports:** Use `@/` alias
- **Components:** PascalCase
- **Colors:** Tailwind tokens only (no hex)
- **Comments:** Only where necessary
